Imagine the United States in the 1800s – it was getting bigger and bigger! This was all thanks to something called Manifest Destiny. It was a belief that many Americans had that they were special and had the right to take over all the land in North America, from the Atlantic Ocean to the Pacific Ocean. They thought it was their God-given right!

Manifest Destiny was like a super strong idea that made people want to move west and explore new territories. They felt like it was their mission to spread their way of life, their government, and their ideas across the whole continent. This made them want to get more and more land, even if it meant taking it from others.

One of the first big things that happened was the Louisiana Purchase in 1803. President Thomas Jefferson, who was the leader of the U.S. at the time, bought a huge piece of land from France for $15 million. It was like doubling the size of the U.S. overnight! This gave people tons of new places to live, farm, and explore. Explorers like Lewis and Clark were sent to map out this new territory.

Then, the U.S. added Texas to the country. Texas used to be part of Mexico, but a lot of Americans moved there. They didn't like the rules of the Mexican government, so they fought for their independence and won! After being an independent country for a few years, Texas asked to join the United States, and the U.S. said yes.

This made Mexico very angry because they still thought Texas belonged to them. So, the U.S. and Mexico fought a war called the Mexican-American War. The U.S. won, and Mexico had to give up a lot of land, including California, Nevada, Utah, and parts of Arizona, New Mexico, Colorado, and Wyoming.

To encourage people to move to these new lands, the U.S. government passed a law called the Homestead Act in 1862. It said that if any adult citizen (or anyone who planned to become a citizen) moved west and farmed the land for five years, they could get 160 acres of land for free! This made lots of people pack up their belongings and head west to start new lives as farmers and ranchers.

But, this westward expansion and the idea of Manifest Destiny had a very bad side. It was terrible for the Native Americans who already lived on this land. As the settlers moved west, they took over the Native Americans' hunting grounds, farmlands, and sacred places. The U.S. government often forced the Native Americans to move to reservations, which were small areas of land set aside for them. This made the Native Americans lose their homes, their way of life, and many important things. So, while Manifest Destiny helped the U.S. grow and become a powerful country, it also caused a lot of suffering and injustice for the people who already lived there.