After the Civil War ended in 1865, the United States had a big job to do: rebuild the South. This time was called the Reconstruction Era, and it lasted until 1877. The government tried to help the South get back on its feet and make sure that former slaves had rights. But it wasn't easy, and things didn't always go as planned.

One of the main goals of Reconstruction was to end slavery for good and give African Americans the same rights as everyone else. The government passed some important laws to help with this. The 13th Amendment said that slavery was illegal everywhere in the United States. The 14th Amendment said that everyone born in the U.S., including former slaves, was a citizen and had the same rights. The 15th Amendment said that men could not be stopped from voting because of their race.

The government also created something called the Reconstruction Acts. These acts divided the South into five areas, each controlled by a general from the Union army. The generals were supposed to make sure that the new laws were followed and that everyone was treated fairly. The government also created the Freedmen's Bureau to help former slaves with food, housing, schools, and medical care.

But many white people in the South didn't like Reconstruction. They didn't want African Americans to have equal rights, and they didn't like the Union army being in charge. Some people formed secret groups like the Ku Klux Klan to scare and hurt African Americans and their supporters. They tried to stop them from voting and going to school.

As time went on, people in the North started to lose interest in Reconstruction. They were tired of the problems in the South and wanted to move on. In 1877, the government took the Union army out of the South. This meant that white southerners were back in charge, and they started to take away the rights that African Americans had gained. They passed laws that separated black people from white people and made it hard for them to vote. The Reconstruction Era was a time of big changes and big problems. It didn't solve all the problems of slavery and racism, but it did set the stage for the Civil Rights Movement in the 1950s and 1960s.